chore: add PD 8.10 alpha release notes (#21047)
OpenTrons/opentrons-api: protocol-designer/release-notes.md

---

## Opentrons Protocol Designer Changes in 8.10.0

> **Welcome to Protocol Designer 8.10.01!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Welcome to Protocol Designer 8.10.0!**
```

Author: oop thanks

Reviewer: Not sure why this change didn't get applied.

Author: Maybe I killed it in the rebase. applying now

> This release improves partial tip pickup in Protocol Designer and includes other bug fixes and improvements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release adds complete support for all allowed partial tip pickup in Protocol Designer and includes other bug fixes and improvements.
```

Author: Updated to: `This release adds full support for all partial tip pickup configurations in Protocol Designer, and includes other bug fixes and improvements.`

### New Features

- Choose from additional partial tip pickup options in Protocol Designer:
  - Flex 96-channel pipette single column (column A1), single row (row A1 or H1), or single nozzle (choose from A1, A12, or H1) tip pickup.
  - Flex 8-channel pipette partial column pickup (2–7 consecutive tips) for column B1.

>   - OT-2 8-channel pipette partial column pickup (2–7 consecutive tips) for columns B1–H1.

Reviewer: I think the coordinates here are a little confusing. Better to just describe them. One of the things that's great about PD is you don't have to code in nozzle config by coordinate, unlike PAPI.

```suggestion
  - Flex 96-channel pipette single column (column 1), single row (row A or H), or single nozzle (A1, A12, or H1) tip pickup.
  - Flex 8-channel pipette partial column pickup (2–7 consecutive nozzles ending at H1).
  - OT-2 8-channel pipette partial column pickup (2–7 consecutive nozzles ending at H1).
```

Author: Yeah, I wasn't sure about these. Will be thinking about this concept for the PD manual, too.

Reviewer 2: I like Ed's edits about the column vs row syntax.

- Return tips to their original position in the tip rack with a pipette configured for partial tip pickup. Tips are marked "used" and can be picked up again using manual tip tracking.

### Improvements

- Customize your blowout location within a source or destination well.

### Bug Fixes

- Use partial tip pickup for a transfer or mix step in a tube rack without errors.

> - Place at least one labware without a lid, accessible to the attached pipette, on the deck to add a transfer step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Requires at least one labware without a lid, accessible to the attached pipette, on the deck to add a liquid handling step.
```

Author: Updated this text a bit to make it (hopefully) clearer and less complex of a sentence.

> - Place at least one labware without a lid, accessible to the attached pipette, on the deck to add a transfer step.

Reviewer: So what's the fix here? You could try to make a transfer even if you had no available tips?

Author: I need to reword this one a bit. 

expected behavior (and bug fix): you can only add a transfer step if you have at least one piece of accessible labware on the deck (like a well plate or reservoir _without_ a lid blocking pipette access)

the bug: you could add a transfer step when there was only inaccessible labware on the deck, and then you would get an error

Author: Updated to: ` Protocol Designer only lets you add a transfer step when the deck contains at least one labware without a lid, accessible to your attached pipette.`

> - Place compatible Opentrons Tough Universal Lids on custom well plates or reservoirs on the deck.

Reviewer: Again, what was the fix? Where could or couldn't they go before and why was that wrong?

Author: if a user added custom labware in PD and added a lid, you would get a 2x stack of the custom labware rather than labware + lid

Author: Updated to: `Protocol Designer lets you add compatible Opentrons Tough Universal Lids on custom well plates or reservoirs without errors.`

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The topmost labware, NOT lid, will be nick named when using the the nick name feature
```

Reviewer: How about "Labware nicknames now apply to the topmost labware that is not a lid."
